>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And I
think many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief,"
with another fascinating program
with the onlinecolumnist.com.
His name is Dr. John Curtis.
And he's an expert in
spin, and we'll tell you
about spin in just a moment.
In this edition, we're going
to be talking about Wall
Street and the Federal Reserve.
Now, talking about the Federal
Reserve, when did it start?
Let's take a look.
>>In November of
1910, a secret meeting
took place of six bankers
and economic policymakers
who represented the financial
elite of the Western world.
It was hosted at
the JP Morgan estate
on Jekyll Island in Georgia.
This meeting was so
secret at the time
that not even the names
of those who attended
were mentioned to the
servants who lived and worked
on the island.
The men who attended came
on a late night train,
claiming to be on their way
to a hunting expedition.
But instead, these bankers met
with Senator Nelson Aldrich
to draft what would eventually
become the Federal Reserve Act.
This private meeting attended
by some of the most powerful men
in America was
strategically designed
to take control of our
country's money supply
and to achieve ultimate
power in America.
>>NOORY: So Dr. John
Curtis, the Federal Reserve
started a long time ago.
>>DR. JOHN CURTIS: 1913, with
the first financial panic that
practically took the
country down to its knees,
completely broke.
>>NOORY: Why did they
decide to put it together?
>>CURTIS: Well, they
didn't want the country
to run out of cash
anymore and they
couldn't rely on the big banking
families like the Rockefellers
and the Morgans
simply to resupply
the banks with all their cash.
>>NOORY: Of course, we've
got the fiat system.
There's nothing
backing the cash.
But there was then, right?
>>CURTIS: Well, that's
not exactly true, George.
I mean, for everybody's
information,
the US has the largest
gold reserve in the world.
It's somewhere in
the neighborhood
of 1,300 tons of gold, not
necessarily in Fort Knox.
>>NOORY: No, it's
not in Fort Knox.
>>CURTIS: Some of it is.
But I mean, there's gold
underneath the Federal Reserve
in New York.
It's everywhere.
But the fact is that the
Federal Reserve was there
to resupply the system.
And Wall Street, as you
know, is a system that
basically runs like a casino.
So when Madoff went down, and
he was basically from prison
telling everybody,
look, my Ponzi scheme
was far less dangerous than
the Wall Street Ponzi scheme.
What I was doing is, somebody
comes in with the money
and I was providing
people with the out.
With Wall Street, when
the markets go down,
everybody's wiped
out until one day
down the road it
comes back again.
So he viewed it as somehow
a bonus, what he was doing.
But it's always been
a very risky way
of financing American business.
>>NOORY: With the Federal
Reserve, why are so many people
opposed to it?
Because every time I'm
on "Coast to Coast"
and I do a financial
program or we
talk about the Federal Reserve,
I don't hear anything positive
about it.
>>CURTIS: Well, part of
it is because there's
no commanding legal authority
with the Federal Reserve.
So it's not supervised
by Congress.
It's completely independent.
And nobody knows when they
give the order to print money.
And there's a belief
in the markets
that printing money,
fiat currency,
is going to create
hyperinflation.
We're going to be taking
wheelbarrows down,
buying a quart of milk
or a loaf of bread.
And the reality is, this
is the way it's been.
There is, as you say, the
13 tons of gold that is here
is a drop in the bucket.
It's a fraction of what
the actual wealth is
of the country.
And the country's mortgaged
through derivatives.
>>NOORY: To the hilt.
>>CURTIS: Way to the hilt.
And the banking industry
is completely,
hopelessly dependent.
They tossed out Glass-Steagall
in 1998 under Bill Clinton,
giving the banks, the big
financial institutions
the right to basically invest
willy-nilly in the market
and make as much fast
cash as they could.
Elizabeth Warren
is one who wants
to reinstate Glass-Steagall.
Everybody's opposed to it,
because these banks basically
right now are so heavily
leveraged on derivatives.
The old way of making money in
the bank doesn't exist anymore.
>>NOORY: No, it does--
and explain to us
what a derivative is, John.
>>CURTIS: Well, a
derivative is basically
an instrument, an investment
instrument that is built off
some hypothetical commodity.
In the last meltdown in 2008,
was built off the real estate
market, in mortgage-backed
securities.
>>NOORY: And look
what happened there.
>>CURTIS: Well, I mean,
the great geniuses
have told us that this was
due to people not paying
their mortgages.
But in reality, it was bets that
were being made by JP Morgan,
by Wells Fargo, by some
of the biggest mortgage
lenders in the country.
And they were losing
on all their bets.
People were-- those
investments, paper investments,
mortgage-backed securities,
these tranches--
they call them tranches of
investments just went from,
let's say, $100
to zero overnight.
>>NOORY: What happened,
actually, with that?
>>CURTIS: Panic.
And just like any stock.
You know, you've seen
Tesla Motors recently
go from almost $300
a share down to $200.
If the market takes a dump, it
could go down to $5 a share.
Even during the 2008
crash, the market crash,
do you realize that Wells Fargo,
which is the bank that Warren
Buffett invests in--
I mean, that stock
went down to under $10 a share.
Their money market,
which had never
gone below par, which is
like, dollar for dollar.
>>NOORY: It's like nothing.
>>CURTIS: No, the
money market went down
below par for the
first time, which
means they paid their investors
in a money market account
at Wells Fargo-- lost money.
So we know that even
the most-- let's
say the most financially solvent
institutions that we count on
and that we know in the banking
industry, in the oil industry,
in any conceivable
sector of the US economy,
can go to nothing if everybody
decides it's time to sell.
>>NOORY: Do you predict another
bubble, an explosion, a burst?
>>CURTIS: No, I don't think so.
I mean, I think we were on
a show doing predictions
for the year and everybody
was saying that the market was
going to go down.
And your lonely voice here
said that he didn't read it
that way, the way that Federal
Reserve Bernanke was passing
out the cash, with
all the bailouts
and printing the money, that
it was going to-- the markets
were going to stay strong.
I also believe that in this
particular economy right
now, where we're really facing
more of a deflationary cycle,
believe it or not, than we
are an inflationary cycle.
Everybody's looking
for inflation.
Bottom line is, in Europe
and Asia and other parts
of the world and in
the United States,
there is no real inflation.
Because the reality
is, whatever employment
has been created over the
last eight years and some 10
million jobs, that's
not enough for people
to survive-- a lot of part-time
jobs, lot of low-income jobs.
And the reality is this
great consumer economy,
which is like 70%
of the nation's GDP,
it just cannot support this
economy any longer with
anything but these
slashed interest rates.
So we are in a period where
this Federal Reserve, they've
been itching to raise
interest rates for years,
but they can't do it because
they're afraid of deflation,
not inflation.
>>NOORY: Right.
And if they raised interest
rates, what would happen?
>>CURTIS: They're afraid
we'd go into a recession.
The GDP, which is running
somewhere around 2%
at the fourth quarter, really
was not a good representative
of around 4%.
It could flatline and it
could go into the red again.
So that's the concern.
In Europe, they are in the red.
And so they're facing this
great recession over there.
And you see the likes of the
French president Francois
Holland and Angela
Merkel meeting
with Vladimir Putin
in the Kremlin
and deciding what
to do in Ukraine.
And you're asking yourselves,
well, what kind of a deal
do they actually
make over there?
And why did they make this deal?
Well, the big concern
over in the Eurozone right
now is recession.
And when they're not selling
enough cars, especially
in Germany, or France,
which isn't known
to be one of the big
manufacturing powers,
but is certainly
hurting financially,
they're very concerned about
lapsing into a recession.
Nothing could accelerate a
recession, maybe a depression,
more than a war spreading from
the Ukraine over into Europe.
So that's the reason why they
put the kibosh on Poroshenko
and the Ukrainians,
because they're
afraid of a very serious
recession in Europe.
>>NOORY: And that's a real fear.
>>CURTIS: It is a fear, but
the bigger concern right now,
and the thing that
we're all facing
is you've got a
hegemony going on
with Putin, with a land army
that basically just beats up
on everybody.
And it happened
during-- for everybody
that is blaming
Obama for this, well,
they can just step back
to 2008 and remember
when Putin ran the Red Army
into Georgia and literally
annexed Abkhazia
and South Ossetia.
And so what happened there?
He essentially got this
green light from the West
and from NATO that he could go
anywhere he wants and anytime
he wants.
And what he's done in Ukraine
is simply to divide the country.
And he's working now
feverishly toward creating
that land bridge between Crimea,
which he seized on March 1
last year, and Russia.
>>NOORY: He's not done.
>>CURTIS: He's not done.
>>NOORY: By any means.
Yet they're going
to let him do it.
Who's going to step
in and stop him?
Not the United States.
>>CURTIS: And
certainly not NATO.
And I think what he's exposed--
and this is extremely dangerous
right now-- he's exposed
that NATO is essentially
a fraud organization.
It's all smoke.
And no one in Europe
has the stomach--
>>NOORY: No teeth.
>>CURTIS: No teeth to confront
anything that Putin does.
He also is major gas
supplier in Europe.
All he has to do is
turn the spigot off.
They've got nobody else to
supply the energy right away.
So they'd have to spend
some time transitioning.
So there's business
relationships.
And the other thing
that people don't
realize about the relationship
that Europe has, especially
Germany has with Putin is--
and it's come out recently--
is that you have
the Russians losing,
estimated in today's
dollars, $4 to $5 trillion
of property damage because
of the Nazi Holocaust
and Hitler's regime and 20
million of their population.
So when you talk about Angela
Merkel and the Russians,
especially her coming from
East Germany putting their foot
down, she can talk tough.
But the reality is, they
don't have any stomach
for really taking it
out all on the Russians.
The US is fighting
its own battle,
the Cold War that just goes on.
And the Europeans don't
have the same feeling.
There's a sense that they
should be doing reparations over
in Russia rather than
sanctioning them more.
So it's a different
perspective than we have.
>>NOORY: World War II
ended about 70 years ago.
70 years ago, yet we
still have the remnants
of what happened then.
>>CURTIS: Well, we
do-- the damage that
was done by the Germans to
especially the Russians,
and all over Europe.
But what you find right now
is that the European economy,
which is built off
this euro right now,
which is a fake currency--
and what I mean by--
>>NOORY: They're
all fake currencies.
>>CURTIS: What I mean
by a fake currency
is it's not a Deutsche Mark.
It's not a French franc.
It's not a drachma.
What's happening
over in Greece is
that it's still completely
unaffordable for those Greeks
to be using a currency
that's essentially
built off the Deutsche Mark.
And the reason why the
Germans are so committed--
the European Central Bank, it's
no accident it's in Frankfurt--
for them doling out euros is
because if the German currency,
if the Eurozone were to end
and they would end the euro,
the German Deutsche Mark
would fly to maybe $3.00.
One Deutsche Mark would be
worth about three US dollars.
>>NOORY: Bring this home
to the United States,
though-- people watching this
program right now, going I
don't give a darn about what's
going on in Europe or Greece.
I care about what's happening
right here in the United
States.
I care about whether
I have a job.
I pay my mortgage.
What do you say to them?
>>CURTIS: Well, you
basically say look,
the entire international
business community
is interconnected today.
A lot of the manufacturing is
done in essentially slave labor
markets in Asia.
The same thing is in Europe.
So any time Europe
is in recession,
the United States is
being dragged down also
into recession.
Anytime the United States
goes into recession,
it also drags Europe down.
So we're all interconnected.
We buy a lot of foreign
products in the United States
manufactured in China.
And so we're all in this
boat together right now.
And unfortunately, the US
cannot be so isolationist.
Another problem is, as far as
the economy over in Europe,
is there's only so
much the US can do.
We have our own problems here,
and you're right about that.
>>NOORY: And so most
people will say, look.
I just want to make sure I'm
OK, that I've got my one or two
cars, that I'm working,
that I can pay my mortgage.
Just leave me alone.
It's that old clip from
"Network" with Howard
Beale coming out, the late Peter
Finch going, leave us alone.
Just let us have our
tellies and our toasters,
and leave me alone.
Because we're as mad as hell.
We're not going to
take this anymore.
>>CURTIS: Well, Wall
Street calls the shots.
So when you're looking at
this, you're talking about,
are we in a bubble?
Of course we're in a bubble.
We're in a bubble in
terms of share prices.
The price to earnings ratios
have never been higher.
This is higher than it was
during the crash in 2000
right now, where we have
an inflated stock market.
But what we have
that differs today
is that we have
a Federal Reserve
Board under Janet Yellen, who's
inherited the job from Ben
Bernanke, who in turn inherited
it from the great one, Alan
Greenspan.
We have somebody who's committed
to these low interest rates
for the indefinite future.
And what that means
to investors out there
is that while you will see
sell-offs periodically,
where the market will come
down 1,000 points or so,
we're at over 18,000 right now.
Don't forget, when Obama
came to office in 2008,
the market was around
8,000, just under 8,000.
It dropped by the time
the recession hit.
>>NOORY: It's doubled
and then some.
>>CURTIS: It's
more than doubled.
So Wall Street will continue
to sell off and take profits
periodically, and people
should not panic about that.
That's just the nature of big
investment bankers at JP Morgan
and at Goldman Sachs.
They know what to do
and how to make money.
You can count on that.
But as far as any bubble
like we had in 2008,
I don't read it that way.
I read that we're going to see
a sideways market where there's
periodic sell-offs and Wall
Street takes its profit-taking.
And then not too
long after that,
you're going to
see market run-ups
and we'll be breaking new highs.
And as long as Janet Yellen
keeps the pedal to the metal
as far as these
low interest rates,
even though they've stopped
the quantitative easing,
and they may go back to that.
But they're doing
that in Europe now.
I think you're going to see
this market continue to climb,
at least until the election.
And the election is-- there's
a lot of unknowns about what's
going to happen then.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
So you do not see
the bubble happening,
as some people are predicting?
>>CURTIS: I'm saying
that there is a bubble,
but as far as the bubble--
>>NOORY: You don't think
it's going to burst, though?
>>CURTIS: No, I don't.
I think as long as you have that
Federal Reserve Board offering
zero to 0.25 interest rates--
we have the lowest interest
rates in the last 50 or
60 years right now-- I
don't think that you'll
have a sustained--
and I emphasize this-- a
sustained sell-off in Wall
Street like we had in 2008.
>>NOORY: What about
gold and silver?
That's kind of hovering, gold
around $1,200-plus, silver $16,
$17 an ounce.
It's gone higher
in the old days.
>>CURTIS: Look,
gold was up to close
to $2,000 We saw all
of your gold friends
that were coming on the show,
and people talking about that.
We're going to--
>>NOORY: $8,000 gold--
>>CURTIS: $5,000,
$6,000, whatever.
The bottom line with
gold is, until we
see-- until we see an imminence
of a new market crash,
which we don't see
yet, we're going
to see gold hovering in the
neighborhood of this $1,100
to $1,200 range.
I don't think there's
really much room for it
to go any lower than that, given
the cost of gold manufacturing
or the bottom line
costs of bringing gold
to the surface right now.
I think you're pretty
much at a bottom.
Now, for people
who are considering
what to do as an
investor as a hedge,
I would be very cautious
to jump into this right
now as a hedge for people.
Because you've got a scenario
with this Federal Reserve--
remember, there's no
commanding legal authority
in the Federal Reserve.
Janet Yellen can do anything.
She's reading the ti leaves, and
they use all the common metrics
that they have to determine
how they're going to do this.
But the bottom line is, there
is no inflationary cycle
that they're worried about.
It's deflation.
As long as deflation
is on the horizon,
they are not going to
raise those interest rates.
They're too afraid
that they could drive
the country into a recession.
And remember, we're heading
into an election cycle.
And typically, there's a chicken
in every pot during an election
cycle.
And they're not going to
want to mess with, you've got
a good thing going right now.
>>NOORY: I mean, how long
has it been since they've
raised interest rates?
It's been years, hasn't it?
>>CURTIS: Well, I mean, interest
rates were slashed back in--
>>NOORY: 2008.
>>CURTIS: Yeah, when
Obama came into office.
That's right.
They were already before that.
>>NOORY: And they
haven't gone up since.
>>CURTIS: No, they haven't.
>>NOORY: Which is unprecedented.
>>CURTIS: Well, it's
unprecedented in the United
States.
It's not unprecedented in Japan.
Japan has had zero-- they have
negative interest rates right
now, where you actually get
incentive for companies, where
they're buying
below par on money,
where the government
is subsidizing them.
They could do that too.
Federal Reserve Board could
actually subsidize banks.
Listen, there's
no limit, George,
to how much money the Federal
Reserve Board can print.
If you looked at their
website and they told you
in 2008, 2009, when
they were trying
to piece this economy
back together,
how much money the Federal
Reserve Board printed,
on their website they said
they printed $6 trillion.
We know that in order--
>>NOORY: Just printed it.
>>CURTIS: No, but
I mean $6 trillion
was a drop in the bucket.
They printed actually,
and there's $24 trillion
that is completely
unaccounted for.
>>NOORY: What you
mean unaccounted for?
>>CURTIS: It's not on their
books, the Federal Reserve
Board.
>>NOORY: But it's in
the system somewhere?
>>CURTIS: It's in the system.
It's in JP Morgan's hands.
It's in Wells Fargo's hands.
It's an AIG's hands.
All the companies--
it's in General Motors--
>>NOORY: Bank of America.
>>CURTIS: Bank of
America-- all the companies
that were bailed out.
It took close to $30 trillion
to bail out the country
in 2008, not the $6 trillion.
>>NOORY: Had they not done
that, had they simply said,
let it fail, let it collapse,
what would have happened,
in your opinion?
>>CURTIS: I think you would
have seen runs on the banks
everywhere.
I think you would have
seen the 1929 repeat.
History would repeat itself.
You'd have an instant
replay of people
rushing to their financial
institutions with nothing left.
And that's the
risk that you had.
The idea that somehow,
let 'em all go under,
let all the big boys--
let 'em all fail,
the big manufacturers,
Detroit, let the banks fail,
you would have found a disaster
of far worse proportions
than you saw in '29 and
through the Great Depression.
Look, they called the last
recession the Great Recession.
It could very easily morphed
without this Federal Reserve
intervention into
something far more atomic
and catastrophic and nuclear.
Had they not provided the
liquidity to the banks,
I think that's what would
have happened in 2008, 2009.
>>NOORY: That's all we need.
Now, most of you probably
don't remember the recession
from way gone back, the
Great Depression, I guess,
as we would call it.
I wasn't even born then.
John, I don't think
you were either.
>>CURTIS: No, but I
know a lot of people
that lived through it.
And it's been passed to me that
when people have no money--
look, there's people living
on the fringe right now.
Let's not for a second
think that this economy,
this economic recovery
we have is really
widespread for a lot of people.
>>NOORY: It's not.
>>CURTIS: There are people--
this is where I'm headed.
The job analysis-- you can
have a 6.2% unemployment rate,
and that's the government
metric that's used.
>>NOORY: I think it's higher.
>>CURTIS: People could argue
it's far higher than that,
because people just given up.
And they've been taken
out of the statistic.
But apart from
that, if you even go
with the government
rate of 6.2%,
these are not quality jobs.
These are low income
and part-time jobs.
And with Obamacare,
what they've done
is they've given the
biggest-- I mean,
when you look at Obamacare,
and really, the good thing
about Obamacare is that if
you were sick, if I were sick,
and we couldn't get
health insurance because
of a preexisting
condition, somebody
can go out and get it now.
I have no problem with that.
I don't think anybody does.
But what I have a problem
with, with Obamacare,
and why it is a
disaster, is because it's
the biggest bailout to the
entire employer-based health
care system that we've
ever seen in this country.
As soon as that law
went into effect
and they knew that
they no longer had
to provide that insurance,
that they could force
their employees who are
working 30 hours a week
or less to go buy
Obamacare, that
came off the expense ledger
for these major corporations.
And that's not right.
The taxpayer should not be
funding these corporations out
of their obligation to provide
employer-based health care.
And that's the reason
why Obamacare either
needs to be fixed or it needs
to be trashed, because of that.
Retain the rule that you cannot
deny people health insurance
or rate them up, but do not
allow these employers to get
off the hook as far as paying
employer-based health care.
>>NOORY: What would
have happened,
John, if we had a
system in place where
if you need a new kidney,
that the government makes sure
you get that kidney?
>>CURTIS: Well, I
think the problem
is with government-- Obamacare
is a private sector a scenario,
where the health insurance
industry is essentially
running it and gouging.
There's no regulation on it
right now through Congress,
because Congress is in massive
gridlock, as everybody's heard.
So it means that they
can get away with a lot,
as far as raising prices
in an unprecedented way.
Their profits in the
insurance industry
have never been higher.
So they love Obamacare.
But the problem is, when you
have any kind of a government
program, just
answer, it inevitably
will fail because there's so
much cronyism, there are so
many payoffs, there's so much
insider manipulation that
goes on that I don't think
anybody would trust it.
The fact is that it goes on
that way anyway right now.
We know folks that have been
in high places who have gotten
heart transplants with
nice healthy bodies
stepped out of line and got
those transplants faster
because they were
able to pony up.
And I'm not going
to name any names,
but I think you know
who I'm talking about.
And so if you had it with the--
>>NOORY: They moved to
the front of the lines.
>>CURTIS: They
certainly are very
vociferous since their
heart transplant, too.
They talk more when
they have more oxygen,
and their hearts
are working better.
So I have no problem with
having fairness in the system.
The problem that we
have right now is,
you cannot pass the buck to
American taxpayers and take
this burden of paying
for health care off
of the employer's balance sheet
and let them stick all this
money overseas.
All this money that's
out of the country right
now, these major
employers like Apple,
and you name the biggest
corporations in the world,
they're keeping
all their trillions
of dollars of cash
out of the country.
>>NOORY: And not
paying taxes on it.
>>CURTIS: Well, that
goes without saying.
But I mean, you can't
stick it to the taxpayer
to pay the employer-based
health care.
That's not fair.
>>NOORY: But they're doing it.
>>CURTIS: Well, that's
what Obamacare-- that's
the loophole in the law
that's killing the system.
>>NOORY: So when does it
change, a new administration?
>>CURTIS: Well, you talk
about a new administration--
it's like the Republicans hosted
their conservative dog and pony
show over the
weekend, and you had
everybody like-- first
they thought that, well, we
should rip Obama.
And then they figured out,
well, why are we ripping him?
He's not running again.
So then they start
ripping Hillary.
And now they're talking about
things like, oh, my God,
can you imagine?
They have a foundation and
there's foreign money in it.
Foreign money-- who
are you kidding?
How much foreign
money do you think
there is in all these
presidential libraries?
H. W. Bush's, George's,
Clinton's-- where you think all
the money came from to
construct these libraries?
Where do think Obama's money--
did it come from, as we know,
cheap petro dollars
from the Middle East?
We all know this.
So the kettle calls the
pot black all the time.
The bottom line is, they're
looking for anything
they can to indict any
Democratic candidate.
And I think it
appears that there
is an anointed one coming on.
And she hasn't
announced yet, but I
think everybody is fairly
certain that Hillary Clinton,
unless she dies between
now and the election,
she's going to run.
>>NOORY: I see a dark horse
popping in here, though.
Somewhere, either whether it's
a Republican or a Democrat,
someone's going to come out
and be totally refreshing.
Because I think people may be
tired of these little family
dynasties.
>>CURTIS: Well, there
are dark horses all over.
A lot of people throughout
the history of mankind
have always wanted some kind of
dark horse to come rescue them.
We all know what that means.
I think the menagerie that you
get with the groups out there,
I think this is
what you're getting.
>>NOORY: Slim pickings.
>>CURTIS: There's not much
on the Democratic side,
other than Hillary.
And there's certainly the same
familiar cast of characters
that have been running.
The dark horse would be, let's
say McCain decided that--
>>NOORY: He wants to
come back and run again?
>>CURTIS: Forget my age.
What does age got to
do with it anymore?
>>NOORY: He's done.
>>CURTIS: But you're
talking about a dark horse.
So, who do you think,
Elizabeth Warren?
She's not quite ready for it.
>>NOORY: Scott Walker's
coming on like crazy,
the governor from Wisconsin.
>>CURTIS: He's from Wisconsin.
Scott Walker is not
ready for prime time.
He has zero foreign policy.
These geopolitical concerns
right now-- the world
is ready to-- the US is ready
for a proxy war with Russia.
We're on the verge
of arming-- we're
arming Syrian rebels right now.
The last time we armed that with
General Salim-- this is Idris,
he's a friend of McCain's--
ISIS took all the weaponry that
the US gave them away, and
they're now using it against--
>>NOORY: Against us.
>>CURTIS: Against us.
And now, the idea
that we're going
to somehow join back and
start resupplying arms, that's
going to affect the negotiations
in Geneva on an arms
deal with Iran more
than anything else.
But think about this.
The proxy war-- you
talk about a proxy war,
you start arming
Ukraine right now,
and the French and the Germans
are horrified by that prospect.
And they're essentially
running the EU.
Anybody that thinks that this
is EU is right out of Brussels,
they've got a lot
of thinking to do.
It's run out of--
>>NOORY: Putin
will pull the plug
on any nation that
arms the Ukrainians.
>>CURTIS: Absolutely.
And the Baltic
states are terrified.
Poland is terrified.
They're all afraid
right now of Putin
marching in that Russian
army and returning
to the old Soviet
satellites that were there.
>>NOORY: Who's
going to stop him?
>>CURTIS: No one.
There's no one.
And the bottom line
is, you can isolate him
all you want with
economic sanctions.
But there's rogue regimes
all over the world.
And there's these
devouring Pac-Man regimes
like China and India.
They're thirsty,
a bottomless pit
of abysmal neediness of energy
and money and nuclear power.
And that's what Russia
can supply them.
So they don't want
to alienate Russia.
>>NOORY: We should have kept
Saddam Hussein in power.
We should have kept
Muammar Gaddafi in power.
And even though they weren't Boy
Scouts, they were controllable.
And we didn't have the kind of
chaos we appear to have today.
>>CURTIS: Well, and
what you're mentioning
is the exact reason why
the forces, the chaos,
the utter anarchy that is going
on all through the Middle East,
with the exception right now of
the military dictatorship that
is in control of Egypt,
with Fattah Assis,
he is the only-- that was a
Saddam Hussein-like, Baathist,
authoritarian regime.
It's a control of Egypt.
They have declared the
Muslim Brotherhood--
and I don't know if you
caught this latest news item,
but a judge in Egypt
yesterday, I believe it was,
declared Hamas a
terror organization
because they're closely tied
to the Muslim Brotherhood.
And Egypt's Assis
understands the consequences.
>>NOORY: Go figure.
John, we're out of time,
but I want to thank you
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>>CURTIS: Oh, my God.
It was great.
>>NOORY: World events--
they all happen
and they all affect all of us.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]